P8105 Homework 3
================
2023-10-10

This homework includes figures; the readability of embedded plots
(e.g. font sizes, axis labels, titles) will be assessed!

# Library Setup

Loading the `tidyverse` and `p8105 datasets` libraries for later use.
Also establishing some document-wide theme and visualization output
settings.

# Problem 1

## Read in Dataset

``` r
data("instacart")

instacart = as_tibble(instacart)
```

## Describing the `instacart` dataset

The `instacart` dataset has 1384617 observations and 15 variables. It
contains information about the items in instacart orders from 131209
different individuals in 2017. The dataset includes variables with
details about the user placing the order, the date and time of the order
itself, and specifics on the items being ordered, including their name
and physical and department location in the store. In total, there are
39123 separate products included in the dataset. On average, each order
was placed 17 days after that individual’s prior order. 59.86% of
products were reordered.

### Number of Aisles and Most Commonly Used Aisles

To see how many aisles there are, and which aisles have the most items
ordered from them, we can create a table. Below is a table summarizing
the number of items ordered from aisle. In total, there are 134 aisles,
with fresh vegetables and fresh fruits holding the most items ordered by
far.

``` r
instacart |> 
  count(aisle) |> 
  arrange(desc(n))
```

    ## # A tibble: 134 × 2
    ##    aisle                              n
    ##    <chr>                          <int>
    ##  1 fresh vegetables              150609
    ##  2 fresh fruits                  150473
    ##  3 packaged vegetables fruits     78493
    ##  4 yogurt                         55240
    ##  5 packaged cheese                41699
    ##  6 water seltzer sparkling water  36617
    ##  7 milk                           32644
    ##  8 chips pretzels                 31269
    ##  9 soy lactosefree                26240
    ## 10 bread                          23635
    ## # ℹ 124 more rows

In total, there are 134 aisles, and the two most commonly ordered-from
aisles are fresh vegetables and fresh fruits.

Make a plot that shows the number of items ordered in each aisle,
limiting this to aisles with more than 10000 items ordered. Arrange
aisles sensibly, and organize your plot so others can read it. Make a
table showing the three most popular items in each of the aisles “baking
ingredients”, “dog food care”, and “packaged vegetables fruits”. Include
the number of times each item is ordered in your table. Make a table
showing the mean hour of the day at which Pink Lady Apples and Coffee
Ice Cream are ordered on each day of the week; format this table for
human readers (i.e. produce a 2 x 7 table).
